I think I can speak for all of us when I
say that this GPU generation has been a
little bit less than super but not
anymore look the RTX 470 super it's
finally here and in a cool matte black
finish that I think looks really really
slick just like every other Founders
Edition box it's really prone to uh
dropping the GPU and inside we get a
fancy
uh 12vt horsepower adapter as I like to
call it the H power stands for horse
obviously the very controversial
connector that I really wish that they
would just ditch at some point still
sticks out the side looks ugly as usual
but you got to respect sticking to your
guns let's jump into the specs and see
how this differs from its older brother
the new RTX 470 super will be using the
same GPU chip the a104 that can be found
in the 4070 and in the 4070 TI if you
remember the 4070 TI was originally
going to be called the 40802 GB and then
everyone got really mad because it's on
a different chip than the 4080 this is
the third C that they've released on
this chip so what does the 470 Super
Brain well it's still cut down compared
to the 4070 TI but we see about a 20 to
22% increase across the board and pretty
much all cores you got Cuda cores tensor
cores Shader cores R tracing cores we
got all of them we got more of them
which basically implies that Invidia has
been able to improve their yields pretty
substantially or maybe they've been
struggling to make 4070 TI because this
is cut down from that the new 470 TI
super yes I know that's kind of a hat on
a hat for a name actually has been moved
up to the 4080 die and will be cut down
from that that's the
8103 so now we're never going to see a
card that has a full Ada 104 chip on it
everything is cut down which is okay
there's lots of times where you have to
disable cores to get better yields but
Nvidia hasn't really done much in terms
of increasing clock speeds the base
clock on the 470 super is 1,980 MHz A
Small Bump over the 1,920 MHz on the RTX
470 but nothing no increase to boost
clock which means that Nvidia is relying
on the extra silicon on the chip for the
performance benefit they're also quoting
an increased power draw over the 4070
but just by about 10% so not a huge
increase and they didn't bother to
increase the cooler which is totally
fine cuz it's already a relatively low
power card and these pass through
coolers that Nvidia made have been doing
just fine this entire generation keeping
everything cool and I actually like the
size of these this is a nice dual SLO is
card and it isn't crazy tall or anything
it fits into cases which is what I
appreciate I'm tired of big triple slot
cards that don't need to be that big
because they can be cooled by something
this small man the new like sleek black
finish just kind of makes the 4070 look
kind of out of date I don't know what it
is maybe I'm just overwhelmed by the
shiny Noo-noo really there's no
difference to IO or anything like that
there's very very little difference
physically about these cards outside of
the cool colors yep we're good there's
not going to be any bump to vram or
anything like that which is a little bit
disappointing because I still think that
at the price point that these cards
exist at you really should be getting 16
gigs especially now that AMD has
announced that they're releasing a $300
card with 16 GB it's it's ridiculous and
it's still stuck at that
192bit bus width unlike the other supers
that have been announced in the lineup
this is not replacing this these will be
sold alongside one another the 4070 TI
super will replace the 4070 TI and the
4080 super will replace the 4080 these
however are both going to remain in
production for now if we walk down this
act we have the 470 super at $600 at
$550 we have the 470 then at $500 we
have the 4060 TI 16 GB and then we have
a $100 leap all the way down to the 4060
TI Knot Just 8 gig and if you feels like
there's that's where the big Chasm is
like why not lower the price of the 4060
TI 16 gig and then insert these into the
price stack that seems to make a lot
more sense because if this takes place
of the 4070 in the product stack and
there's that much of a difference
between the 470 and the 460 TI 16 GB it
kind of makes the 4060 TI 16 GB seem
even more stupid than it already does
it's like truly got to be one of the
worst values ever for PC Hardware it's
it's not cool a 490 is kind of cool it's
just bad it's like oh what an insult and
it's crazy that you go up two steps and
you still don't have access to 16 GB
like Nvidia come on you have to get the
4070 TI to get 60 the 4070 TI super now
to get oh man I hate TI super what a
stupid name now that we understand the
position in the product stack and the
price of the card we got just two things
left to do it's called graphing and
gaming baby we got Labs data and graphs
after this break from our sponsor thanks
to motion gray for sponsoring today's
video tired of back pain from prolonged
sitting and staring at a screen all day
motion gray aims to provide ergonomic
workplace Solutions at affordable prices
there sit to stand desks come in a wide
variety of models and sizes they're
simple to assemble and fully
customizable with a bunch of available
accessories so you're going to be able
to pick one that suits your needs they
also have a range of ergonomic chairs
available with each one focusing on
adjustability affordability and
providing maximum Comfort check out
motion grade the link down below and use
offer code Linus for 10% off your
purchase all right we' switched to the
other set to get this GPU plugged in and
we're playing some games we're playing
cyber Punk on let's check the settings
right now what are we at the highest on
Ultra basically we no path tracing yet
but we can even turn on path tracing and
see what happens path tracing card this
is not I mean even on the highest end
cards in this game like you only get
like 20 frames per second okay and we're
getting like 23 frames per second second
with everything cranked it's cinematic
isn't it
Andrew it's
beautiful um
but if we just turn on go to dlss and
you can really see dlss falling apart
like look at how like it gets nasty when
we turn we turn R tracing off we're in
like the 40 45 region which is honestly
like completely this is totally playable
um I'd probably lower the some of the
less wow I'd probably order I'd probably
lower the things a little bit further
but honestly this pretty impressive like
this uh I'm pretty impressed I wonder
what the thermals are like we're getting
like 70 7ish de and I mean wow you know
it's pretty crazy I mean I'd expect
nothing less for like a $600 graphics
card but uh let's uh see we got for Mark
yeah 99 100% 10.5% power usage at The
Hot Spot we're seeing 80 205 Watts which
is pretty much onpc for what they were
quoting it's fun to touch hot
Electronics don't you agree it feels
surprising to me to see a 70 series card
perform so dang well they couldn't have
have really made it look more like a
butthole wa overall in our games at
1080p we're seeing about a 14% increase
over the 470 on the 470 super and a 12%
performance improvement over the 7800 XT
in our 1% lows in 1080 it's a bit of a
tighter race but I'd say this is more of
a 1440p card so let's look at what those
results show in 1440p we see that lead
especially in the 1% lows increase over
the 4070 this is probably thanks to the
expand L2 cache that's on the 4070 super
so the 470 super is now performing more
in line with that 20% increase that
Nvidia was quoting when we go to dlss we
see the actual 20% that Nvidia was
talking and they were probably talking
about dlss numbers the whole time CU
that's all they ever want to talk about
we see another 20% increase in rate
tracing and in 4k that's where we see a
the biggest increases over the 4070
that's about all the analysis we're
going to do here if you want to learn
more just wait for the end of the month
when we're going to release a video on
LT about all of the Super Cards um and
for now enjoy these graphs and you can
learn a little bit more about these
cards for yourself it's a great card
it's still too expensive but you know
what isn't expensive subscribing to
Short Circuit thanks so much for
watching uh if you want to watch more
GPU videos on shorts C uh Jake and lus
have done them